# My Advice to New Teachers
#### Post #5 in the series [10 Posts in 10 Days](http://www.qdonnellan.com/blog/2014/01/03)
*January 7, 2014*

I am now in my 6th year of teaching at a public high school in Fort Worth, TX. In no way to I consider myself an expert in the profession; I rather feel that I have still much to learn about teaching. However, I do feel as though I stumbled upon some invaluable, simple, habits that make my daily routine much less stressful than it was 6 years ago. If you are a new teacher looking for simple steps towards a less stressful day, I recommend you try one or more of these things. 

## 1. Avoid grumpiness
This is the cardinal rule that has helped me to be a much happier teacher. If you find that something is making you grumpy, stop doing it. If you find that you are around grumpy people, stop hanging out with them: grumpiness is perhaps the most contagious malady in teaching. All the other habits below were formed when I had this in mind. 

## 2. Avoid the copy room at all costs
I've decided that the root of many frustrations in my building stem from problems with the copy machines. This means that everytime I step into the copy room I'm likely to encounter a problem that will impede my plans for the day or I'll be present when another teacher encouters that problem. By avoiding the copy room, I'm less likely to become grumpy, and much less likely to encounter grumpy people. 

Most importanty, if you constrain yourself to never make copies of anything, you'll find yourself creating much more innovative lessons. You will also find yourself more able to quickly change when additional constraints are placed on your teaching. An easy example: if you rely on the copy machine for your daily lessons, then planning for a substitute requires exactly as much time as planning for a normal day, and you'll find yourself sick and *still* driving to school in the morning to make copies. Don't do that. 

## 3. Don't come that early. Don't say that late. 
During that first year, I was at school 2-3 hours before the opening bell. I would also regularly stay an hour or two after the closing bell. That was stupid. 

Now I get to school 30 minutes before the start and I stay maybe for 30 minutes after the close. By forcing myself to limit my time at school, I've had to learn how to become more efficient in creating lessons, grading work, and interacting with people. This is related to the copy-room habit: the more constraints you place on your time, the more likely you are to innovate efficient practices. 

Limiting your time in the school building during hours where other teachers may be routinely stymied also reduces your chances of running into grumpiness. 

## 4. Do not take anything home. Ever. 
This habit is like the last one: never take anything home to grade. Period. If you find that you have too much to grade and too little time to do it, stop giving so much stuff to grade! This habit, more than any others, has forced me to use my conference time much more effectively than I ever did when I was taking work home. 

If you know you can't take stuff home, you will want to finish it during lunch, or during any small breaks you have during the day. This is infinitely better than trying to do work at the end of the day when your mind is naturally less effective at producing good results. This also makes you a grumpy person; the last place you want to be grumpy is in your own home. 

## 5. Don't lecture.
I had not discovered this until recently, but routine lecturing is bad. Bad for you, bad for the students, just bad. If at all possible, find a way to incorporate student-led discussion into your every day lessons. My calculus students come to class, check the current set of problems, grab markers and whiteboards, and start collaboratively working out the problems. When they struggle, I'm right there to help them out, but I never, ever, lecture to them. 

Are you frustrated with students using cell phones during your lectures? Well, you are boring and I don't blame them; stop lecturing! Students crave interaction with their peers, and as humans they also natively appreciate discovering new things with their peers. Lecturing prevents any of that from happening. 

Every once in a while I'll talk on something for a minute or two; my class gets real quiet because they know if I'm up in front of them saying something it must be *really* important.  

## 6. Collaborate with a good teacher
The most important thing I can leave you, new teacher, is this: find a good teacher in your building and talk to them on a regular basis. If you do nothing else, do this. 

In the last two years I've been collaborating with the AP Literature teacher on incorporating classroom dicsussion in our respective classes. This relationship has helped me realize more about myself and my effectiveness than any other professional development that has been prescribed to me by our administration over the years. 

Sit in their class while they teach. Invite them to sit in yours. Talk about what is working and what you'd like to do; then do it! 

## Summary
In all, this is just an anectode from some random Calculus teacher in Texas. I've found the following habits to help in reducing my stress and increasing my effectiveness in school:

1. Avoid grumpiness
2. Don't ever walk into the copy room
3. Don't come early or stay late
4. Don't take work home, ever
5. Don't lecture
6. Find a good teacher in your building and collaborate

If you can establish those habits, I'm quite sure you'll find yourself happier, more effective, and more likely to enjoy your job than otherwise. 
