title_ Unit tests: I finally get it!
#### Post #3 in the series [10 Posts in 10 Days](http://www.qdonnellan.com/blog/2014/01/03)
*January 5, 2014*

One and a half years ago I decided to learn programming and web development. At that time my brother sent me a link to the startup Udacity and their new course ["CS253: Web Development"](https://www.udacity.com/course/cs253). I enrolled and spend the next 6 weeks learning Python, HTML/CSS and the intricaces of learning how to build and deploy web applications. 

Since that time I've built several fully deployed web apps; one of them even has over 100 users. But for all the skills I learned by taking that Udacity course, I never learned **testing**. To be sure, I had *encountered* it: my brother constantly reminded me "dude, you should be writing tests", and every tutorial I went through suggested that I should be writing tests (though most of the tutorials never explicitly showed me how).

I knew I should be writing tests for my software, but I just didn't know how. Also, my software worked just fine without them! Most of the time...

Then, a few weeks ago, I came across the official [Django tutorial](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.6/intro/). Django is a framework for writing Python web applications, and I just recently decided that this framework was something that I needed to learn, so I started with this often recommended tutorial. Things were going great until I encountered the section, [Introducing automated testing](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.6/intro/tutorial05/)

Dangit.

However, this tutorial was different than other tutorials I had read. Yeah it told me that I needed to write tests for my code, but it also told me why and *how*. For anyone out there looking for a good place to start testing on a web development framework, I strongly suggest the Django tutorial.

After reading through that lesson I felt like I had discovered something that should have been obvious to me long ago. 

### My old method for testing

1. Write some software that displays a web page
2. Open a web browser and see if the web page looks correct
3. Fix it if it doesn't looks correct, move on it if does

### My new method for testing

1. Write some softare that displays a web page
2. Write an automated test that checks if the output from the software is correct
3. If it isn't correct, fix it and run the test again

It was so simple! I had been doing testing all along, but none of it was automated. Once I realized this, it was easy to start writing tests for every single function I wrote. What I had bemoaned previously is now a simple habit: write a function, write a test for that function *at the same time*. 

My goal for the future is to slowly adopt the habit of test-driven development. That is, to make sure my routine is like this:

1. Write a test that checks if the output from the software is correct
2. Write the software
3. Edit the software until the test passes

It's always fun when you learn something new, and the great thing about learning software is that there is *always something new* to be learned. 


