# Doing Harkness Discussion Everyday
#### Post #2 in the series [10 Posts in 10 Days](http://www.qdonnellan.com/blog/2014/01/03)
*January 4, 2014*

Last year (2012-2013 school year) I was intriqued by the idea of replacing traditional lecturing with discussion. I wrote a couple of posts on the experiment, but I never committed myself to discussion on a daily baises.

This year, however, I have bit down 100% on doing discussion everyday and I am very happy with the results. A bit on my setting: I teach Calculus and Engineering at a large public high school in north Fort Worth, TX. My Calculus courses each have nearly 40 students comprised (almost) entirely of seniors. My Engineering courses each have 25 students and most of them are freshman. I have *not* incorporated discussion into my Engineering courses to the same level as I have in my Calculus courses; this post therefore deals with my experiences in those Calculuse sections.

## Breaking the class up
On the first day of school this year, I gave my only lecture since: an introduction to how *things were going to work differently*. Now, a class of 40 students is difficult to manage, and this large size was one of the pressures I felt to change how I had traditionally delievered lessons. The only way that teaching a class this large could be effective is if I could break it into smaller groups.

Before the year had started I requested a larger room than I was in last year. As it turns out, the only available room large enough for my class was the old sewing room, complete with several (still-operational) sewing stations. This room also came with 3 very large fixed-to-the-floor tables (under which were set each of the several sweing stations). The size of each one of these tables was roughly equal to the size of the harkness tables I saw at Exeter, so I figuered this room would be perfect.

Thus, starting at the second day of class, I generated a random list of 3 groups, and as the students walked in they would sit down to the group they were assigned. That places roughly 13 students in each group. 

## Giving groups something to do
One of the big ideas behind Harkness is that as the teacher, you never directly deliver material (unless a dire need exists). At Exeter, the students work through a set of problems for homework and then talk on their results/struggles during their classroom discussion. In this manner they discover the fundamentals of the math lying inside each problem set. 

So on a regular basis I sit down and write up a problem set on [lessonwell](https://www.lessonwell.com/qdonnellan/course1/unit5872285445521408). As I write these problems I think about what the students have discussed so far, what they have struggle with, what they found to be easy, and I tailor the problems to the current state of the class. 

The great thing about putting the students in random groups on a daily basis is that even if one groups moves incredibly fast relative to the other groups, that speed is only maintained for a day: on the next day those students will be split among the "slower" students, and will be forced to go back and re-teach what they have already sped through. This is perhaps my favorite (unintended) consequence of the setup I have produced. 

## Summary
In general, this is how I have structured my class: students walk in and are seated in random groups. Once they are in their groups, they discuss the current problem set and any questions/issues that may exist as they go through the problems. My role as a teacher is simply to walk around and take note of the discussion, prop them up if they need help, or nudge them in the right direction if they are drifting. 

After a semester of doing this daily, I can honestly say that this has been the most productive, efficient, and rewarding teaching strategy I have ever employed. I'll have much more on this in subsequent posts. 