blog_files/2014/01_08.md, before:

# Web Apps I use on a Daily Basis, Teacher Edition
#### Post #6 in the series [10 Posts in 10 Days](http://www.qdonnellan.com/blog/2014/01/03)
*January 8, 2014*

Here is a quick rundown of the software that I use on a daily basis as a teacher.

## Google Drive
[www.drive.google.com](http://www.drive.google.com)

I use google drive to organize my lessons and to share content with my students. Students also use Google Drive to share their work with me and their peers. 

## Google Calendar
[www.calendar.google.com](http://www.calendar.google.com)

Drive and Calender go hand in hand for me. The great thing about Google Calendar is that you can attach Google Drive documents to your Calendar events. Every day my engineering students check our Google Calendar to see which tasks they need to complete. Those events will link to content on Google Drive if required. 

## Free Mind
[freemind.sourceforge.net](http://freemind.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Main_Page)

Free Mind is a free *mind mapping* platform which I use to keep track of tasks I need to complete and tasks I have already completed. Because it is a mind map, this is an excellent way for me to visualize the projects I'm working on: what is consuming my time, what I need to spend more time on, which projects have the most depth, etc. If you are a visual person, I strongly recommend taking a look at FreeMind.

## Lessonwell
[www.lessonwell.com](http://lessonwell.com)

Lessonwell is a free webapp that I've created for hosting my lessons. Every one of my calculus problem sets is on lessonwell ([here](https://www.lessonwell.com/qdonnellan/course1)). If you are looking for a real simple platform that allows you to share lessons without spending any time formatting or organizing, I'd recommend that you check it out. 

## Autodesk Inventor
[www.autodesk.com](http://www.autodesk.com/education/free-software/inventor-professional)

The engineering curriculukm that I teach incorporates Autodesk Inventor which allows students to design 3D models. By clicking on the link above and following the directions you can download a free (education) version of Inventor.

Commit message:

Changed title to more accurately reflect content and changed a typo (Free Mind -> FreeMind)

blog_files/2014/01_08.md, after:

# Apps I use on a Daily Basis, Teacher Edition
#### Post #6 in the series [10 Posts in 10 Days](http://www.qdonnellan.com/blog/2014/01/03)
*January 8, 2014*

Here is a quick rundown of the software that I use on a daily basis as a teacher.

## Google Drive
[www.drive.google.com](http://www.drive.google.com)

I use google drive to organize my lessons and to share content with my students. Students also use Google Drive to share their work with me and their peers. 

## Google Calendar
[www.calendar.google.com](http://www.calendar.google.com)

Drive and Calender go hand in hand for me. The great thing about Google Calendar is that you can attach Google Drive documents to your Calendar events. Every day my engineering students check our Google Calendar to see which tasks they need to complete. Those events will link to content on Google Drive if required. 

## FreeMind
[freemind.sourceforge.net](http://freemind.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Main_Page)

Free Mind is a free *mind mapping* platform which I use to keep track of tasks I need to complete and tasks I have already completed. Because it is a mind map, this is an excellent way for me to visualize the projects I'm working on: what is consuming my time, what I need to spend more time on, which projects have the most depth, etc. If you are a visual person, I strongly recommend taking a look at FreeMind.

## Lessonwell
[www.lessonwell.com](http://lessonwell.com)

Lessonwell is a free webapp that I've created for hosting my lessons. Every one of my calculus problem sets is on lessonwell ([here](https://www.lessonwell.com/qdonnellan/course1)). If you are looking for a real simple platform that allows you to share lessons without spending any time formatting or organizing, I'd recommend that you check it out. 

## Autodesk Inventor
[www.autodesk.com](http://www.autodesk.com/education/free-software/inventor-professional)

The engineering curriculukm that I teach incorporates Autodesk Inventor which allows students to design 3D models. By clicking on the link above and following the directions you can download a free (education) version of Inventor. 

### UPDATE: 9 January 2014
This article was originaly title "Web Apps I use...", then I realized that a few of these apps are actually native applications! So the title has been changed to "Apps I use..."
