# Harkness Discussion in a class of 30
*March 27, 2013*

Over the last few months I have been working to incorporate some [Harkness](http://www.exeter.edu/admissions/109_1220.aspx) pedagogy into my calculus class, and I'm pleased to report that the results of this have been wonderful.

For those curious about Harkness, the concept is simple: instead of filling your precious classroom time with lectures or whatnot, you fill it with discussion. Students come prepared to discuss the previous night's (or day's) lesson. During class the students work through a problem posed by the teacher (dissecting a passage, analyzing a poem, debating a philosophy, working through a problem, etc.) entirely through a discussion which hardly ever includes direction from the teacher. That teacher (me in this case) sits at his desk, observing the student's thoughts. 

Now Harkness is used prolifically at the [Philips Exeter Academy](http://www.exeter.edu/) who presently remain the chief advocates of this pedagogy. I was anxious, initially, to adopt the Harkness method into my Calculus class because at Exeter the class sizes are incredibly small (12-15 students); my class has 30 students. However, with significant collaboration with our amazing English teacher, [Mrs. Jennifer Isgitt](http://empathicteacher.wordpress.com/), we've created a adaptation for Harkness which I believe truly works for the 30-student classroom. 

### Adapting Harkness to a class of 30

The first thing we wanted to do was capture the small-group feel of the Harkness table discussions in a large-group. What we do is split the classroom in half. One half of the students are members of the discussion team, and the other half are members of the observing team. While the discussion group is working through the problem, each member of the observing group has an assigned discussion-partner whom they observe. After some time (or perhaps the next day) the roles are flipped. Alternatively, Mrs. Isgitt randomly selects the discussion group each time such that the students never know when they will discuss or observe. We've found both to be effective in our microcosms. 

### Harkness in a Calculus class

Another one of my challenges was understanding how the discussion setting could work in a mathematics course. Last year, with little prior preparation, I attempted some Harkenss discussion in my Calculus class and did not have a positive experience. In hindsight I attribute entirely our lack of success to my lack of preparation and understanding of what discussing math actually means. This year, I created a problem-solving process which students are required to walk through during each discussion. Thus, our Harkness sessions look something like this:

**Step 1** Students are given a difficult, multi-step problem to solve

**Step 2** They must work through each step in [this problem solving process](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DTAd3BEIdb3gIpAbF9jn6SypyGRfic04h0TyBd_nGe8/edit?usp=sharing) as they attempt to solve the problem

**Step 3** After they feel they have successfully completed the problem (which sometimes takes more than 1 class period) they meet with the observers to review their individual contributions

I have found that the students really get into the details of the problem and ask some really great questions that I would otherwise be anxious to pose in the normal "sage on the stage" environment I sometimes create. 

I am nowhere near perfecting this adaptation of Harkness into my classes, but I am confident that it can work in a large class and we now have some useful data in proving such. When I have some more time this summer I'll present some more reflection and a more robust instructional on how to replicate this thing in your own Calculus/mathematics/large-group course. 

Feel free to take and adapt the current structure I use for Harkness in Calculus ([which can be found here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DTAd3BEIdb3gIpAbF9jn6SypyGRfic04h0TyBd_nGe8/edit?usp=sharing))