# Exeter Astronomy Conference 2013
*July 19, 2013*

Earlier this month I had the pleasure of attending the Exeter Astronomy Conference at the Philips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire. The conference is held every two years in conjunction with the much larger Anja S. Greer Conference on Mathematics, Science, and Technology. 

This is perhaps the best professional development event I have ever attended. 

First of all, the show is run by John Blackwell: teacher, astronomer, pilot, adventurer, and all-around awesome man. John runs the observatory on the Exeter campus and teaches some very lucky high school students courses in astronomy throughout the year there. I met John a couple times at the annual winter meeting of the American Astronomical Society and at the last such meeting, in Long Beach this January, John invited me to apply for the upcoming conference at his school. I did - absolutely one of the better choices I’ve made.

The astronomy conference is more of a collaborative gathering than it is a “conference.” We weren’t “presented” with some canned powerpoints or pitched innovative new pedagogy. Instead, we - the 15 or so educators attending - sat around a table and discussed our experiences in teaching astronomy. This was an effort to mimic the prized Harkness Discussion technique which is championed by the Exeter Academy; every classroom runs entirely on this discussion method, and I am eager to adapt it to my own classroom. 

While John nudged us in a general direction, we largely produced our own development. One teacher would comment on how they teach a particular topic and another would pick up on a detail and run from there. We rolled through large scale topics: “what is important to teach in an Astronomy class?”.  We picked our way through very specific foci - “how do you teach spectroscopy to your class?”

At one point, in an effort to simulate a classroom discussion he typically sees from his own students, John asked us to explain light. “What is light?” he asked.

That question kept us occupied for no less than 2 hours before we had to break for lunch. We mutually decided it was best to just leave that topic alone for the rest of the conference while simultaneously acknowledging how much depth (and breadth) can be obtained through open, unstructured discussion, even initiated by the simplest of questions. 

Aside from the discussion we were introduced to the software and equipment used in John’s classes, and we even toured the Grainger Observatory there. Not a single clear night meant that we couldn’t use any of the telescopes for night-time observing, but I was satiated nonetheless.

Each of us came away from the conference energized for another year of teaching. There is so much I want to write about what I experienced in my week there, from the food to the software, that I’ve decided to bare those details in separate posts; I do hope to get to them soon.

In all: this was an awesome experience, one that I would wish on all my colleagues. If you don’t teach Astronomy, worry not! Exeter’s summer conferences cover nearly every major course taught, just check out their website here: [Summer programs at Exeter](http://www.exeter.edu/summer_programs/7313.aspx)

A big “Thank you” to John Blackwell and all of the educators who attended the conference with me - what a blast.
