# Harkness Discussion in a 40 student class

This last year I’ve been collaborating with our English AP teacher on adapting the Harkness Discussion method - developed at the [Phillips Exeter Academy](http://www.exeter.edu/) where small class sizes are the norm - to class sizes of 30 kids.

This upcoming year it appears that my Calculus classes will be nearly 40 students each (a consequence of their popularity; by no means is this a complaint!). My challenge now stands at calibrating this discussion pedagogy to be effective for 40 students. 

First, I am quite sure that a Harkness Discussion table only works with 15 or less students seated around it. Therefore, while my class size may be 40 students, I must limit the number who are actively involved in the discussion.

Second, for those students not involved in the discussion, they must be given a task that is directly related to the discussion; this task must provide significant utility to the student or else I will lose their interest and participation. 

My current concept is to split the class up into 3 groups: a discussion group, an observation group, and an analysis group.

### The Discussion Group
This group of students will sit around a typical Harkness Table and go through the normal discussion, working to solve the previous night's problem set. In a class of 40, this group would be about 1/3 of the population: 13 students.

### The Observation Group
This group of students, also roughly 1/3 of the class at 13 students, will be tasked to observe and record the discussion. They will be required to write, nearly the entire time a record of what was discussed while incorporating their own opinions and suggestions about the current discussion. In no way will the observation group interact with the discussion group during the discussion. 

### The Analysis Group
The third group, consisting of the last third - 13 or so students, will be seated in front of their computer during the discussion. Now, this year in Calculus I'm taking it upon myself to teach these students the basics of Python programming, with the understanding that most students who go on to Calculus at the college level will be forced to learn some sort of numerical math, probably in the form of Matlab or Mathematica, or some similar tool. So, while these students are sitting at their computer they will be observing the discussion and when they hear an equation, some statistics, or any bit of math that sparks their interest, they will be required to instantly produce a graph, chart, visual derivation, or *something* produced from their use of the technology they've learned. 

For those who aren't familiar with the sorts of Python generated plots I'm expecting from my students, take a look at a gallery of example [located here](http://matplotlib.org/gallery.html). 

The analysis group would also save these figures to a collaboration site accessible to the entire class in real-time (which may be utilized by the discussion group for evidence).

In this way I hope to mitigate the problems of a large class, and actual pivot on its size as an advantage.

As I discover the weaknesses in this technique I'll report back!
